# Process Model

Tauri employs a multi-process architecture similar to Electron or many
modern web browsers. This guide explores the reasons behind the design
choice and why it is key to writing secure applications.

## Why Multiple Processes?

In the early days of GUI applications, it was common to use a single
process to perform computation, draw the interface and react to user
input. As you can probably guess, this meant that a long-running,
expensive computation would leave the user interface unresponsive or,
worse, a failure in one app component would bring the whole app
crashing down.

It became clear that a more resilient architecture was needed, and
applications began running different components in different
processes. This makes much better use of modern multi-core CPUs and
creates far safer applications. A crash in one component doesn't
affect the whole system anymore, as components are isolated on
different processes. If a process gets into an invalid state, we can
easily restart it.

We can also limit the blast radius of potential exploits by handing
out only the minimum amount of permissions to each process, just
enough so they can get their job done. This pattern is known as the
[Principle of least privilege], and you see it in the real world all
the time. If you have a gardener coming over to trim your hedge, you
give them the key to your garden. You would **not** give them the keys
to your house; why would they need access to that? The same concept
applies to computer programs. The less access we give them, the less
harm they can do if they get compromised.

## The Core Process

Each Tauri application has a single core process, which acts as the
application's entry point and which is the only component with full
access to the operating system.

The Core's primary responsibility is to use that access to create and
orchestrate application windows, system-tray menus, or notifications.
Tauri implements the necessary cross-platform abstractions to make
this easy. It also routes all [Inter-Process Communication] through
the Core process, allowing you to intercept, filter, and manipulate
IPC messages in one central place.

The Core process should also be responsible for managing global state,
such as settings or database connections. This allows you to easily
synchronize state between windows and protect your business-sensitive
data from prying eyes in the Frontend.

We chose Rust to implement Tauri because its concept of [Ownership]
guarantees memory safety while retaining excellent performance.

<figure>

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    C{Core}
    W1[WebView]
    W2[WebView]
    W3[WebView]

    C <-->|Events & Commands| W1
    C <-->|Events & Commands| W2
    C <-->|Events & Commands| W3
```

<figcaption>Figure 1-1: Simplified representation of the Tauri process model. A single Core process manages one or more WebView processes.</figcaption>
</figure>

## The WebView Process

The Core process doesn't render the actual user interface (UI) itself;
it spins up WebView processes that leverage WebView libraries provided
by the operating system. A WebView is a browser-like environment that
executes your HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

This means that most of your techniques and tools used in traditional
web development can be used to create Tauri applications. For example,
many Tauri examples are written using the [Svelte] frontend framework
and the [Vite] bundler. <br> Security best practices apply as well;
for example, you must always sanitize user input, never handle secrets
in the Frontend and ideally defer as much business logic to the Core
process as possible to keep your attack surface small.

Contrary to other similar solutions, the WebView libraries are **not**
included in your final executable but dynamically linked at
runtime[^1]. This makes your application _significantly_ smaller, but
it also means that you need to keep platform differences in mind, just
like traditional web development.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
[^1]: Currently, Tauri uses [Microsoft Edge WebView2] on Windows, [WKWebView] on
    macOS and [webkitgtk] on Linux.

[principle of least privilege]:
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege
[inter-process communication]: inter-process-communication.md
[ownership]:
  https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch04-01-what-is-ownership.html
[microsoft edge webview2]:
  https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/
[wkwebview]:
  https://developer.apple.com/documentation/webkit/wkwebview
[webkitgtk]: https://webkitgtk.org
[svelte]: https://svelte.dev/
[vite]: https://vitejs.dev/
