# Linux

Tauri applications for Linux are distributed either as [Debian
Packages][debian package] (`.deb`) or [AppImages][appimage]
(`.AppImage`). This guides provides information about format specific
quirks and customization opportunities.

## AppImage

AppImage is a distribution format that does not rely on the system
installed packages and instead bundles all dependencies and files
needed by the application. For this reason, the output file is larger
but easier to distribute since it is supported on many Linux
distributions and can be executed without installation, just making
the file executable (`chmod a+x MyProject.AppImage`) and running it
(`./MyProject.AppImage`).

AppImages are convenient, simplifying the distribution process if you
cannot make a package targeting the distribution's package manager.
Still, you should carefully use it as the file size grows from the
2-6MBs range to 70+MBs.

## Debian Package

Debian packages are a compressed collection of files installed on
various Linux distributions. Unlike AppImages they don't bundle
required libraries, relying instead on the correct dependency versions
installed on the system. This makes them less portable and reliable
since missing libraries or incompatible versions will cause problems.
Debian packages are recommended only for distributions that have no
support for AppImages.

### Bootstrapper

Instead of launching the app directly, you can configure the bundled
app to run a script that tries to expose the environment variables to
the app; without that, you'll have trouble using system programs
because the `PATH` environment variable isn't correct. You can enable
it with the [`tauri.bundle.deb.useBootstrapper`] config.

### Additional Files

The Debian package allows you to specify additional files that copied
to the the user's filesystem upon installation. The configuration
object maps

<figure>

```json
{
  "tauri": {
    "bundle": {
      "deb": {
        "files": {
          // copies the README.md file to /usr/lib/README.md
          "/usr/lib/README.md": "../README.md",
          // copies the entire public directory to /usr/lib/assets
          "usr/lib/assets": "../public/"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<figcaption>Listing 3-TODO: </figcaption>
</figure>

[debian package]: https://wiki.debian.org/Packaging
[appimage]: https://appimage.org/
[`tauri.bundle.deb.usebootstrapper`]:
  https://tauri.studio/docs/api/config/#tauri.bundle.deb.useBootstrapper
